In combat, entities are defeated when their HP reaches 0.
MP is required to use most skills. In combat, actions other than using skills will restore small amounts of MP.
You can check stats during combat using the Party and Enemies menus.
The damage of Physical attacks is generally based on the ratio between the users ATK and the target's DEF.
The damage of Magic attacks is generally based on the ratio between the users MAG and the target's RES.
The chance for an attack is generally based on the users ACC, the target's AVO, and the Distance between them.
The time between your actions depends on your SPD, as well as how fast the actions you take are.
You get 3 Stat Points every level to increase your base stats. These can be re-allocated at any time outside of combat.
The maximum number of Stat Points you can have in any given stat is equal to your Player Level.
Class Ranks are tracked separately from each other and your Player Level. Gaining EXP counts towards your current Class's Rank.
You can change classes at any time when not in a dungeon.
Raising a Base Class to its maximum level will unlock new classes. The base class's skills will still be available while using these.
Free Skills can be used on any class once they've been learned. You can use up to 4 Free Skills at once.
Equipment can have 5 rarities: Common, Uncommon, Rare, Epic, or Legendary. Rarity has a large influence on the equipment's strength.
Equipment can have a rank between 1 and 10. Rank has an influence on the equipment's strength, though less so than Rarity.
Equipment will often drop with names that have no relation to their traits or stats. Sorry for the confusion.
The rank of equipment can usually be increased by spending WUP.
The rarity of Rank 10 equipment can be increased by spending both WUP and SWUP. It can be expensive, and higher level dungeons may provide higher rarities more freely.
After increasing the rarity of equipment, it becomes Adaptable. This allows you to spend SWUP to change its traits.
The number and strength of Traits on a piece of equipment depends on the rarity. Weapons can have up to 3, while other pieces of gear usually have up to 2.
Some pieces of equipment may come with Curses, which have negative effects in exchange for strengthening one of the normal traits.
Your default attacking range is mostly determined by your equipped Weapon.
Adaptable equipment is more valuable when sold, but there's no way to get a refund on any Adaptations actually applied.
Most dungeons are difficult to clear at the recommended levels when playing alone. There is strength in numbers.
You can use the Formation menu before and between dungeon rooms to change the distance you start at. Changing this will delay your first turn in combat, however.
While in a party, you can give equipment to your allies.
Defending will reduce the damage you take from attacks until your next turn, as well as giving you MP for each hit you take. It's the slowest basic action, however.
Approaching is faster than Retreating, but either way, repositioning by 1 distance is faster than Attacking. Repositioning further or relative to more enemies takes longer, however.
Physical attack attributes include Slashing, Crushing, and Piercing. They're generally determined by your weapon, but certain skills can attack with specific attributes.
Magical attack attributes include Neutral, Fire, Ice, Wind, Light, and Dark. These can most commonly be changed by Mage Advanced Class skills.
Hit chance can be heavily influenced by distance to the opponent. Consider increasing ACC and using the Ranger free skill if you're struggling to hit at range.
It can take several turns to get MP back after running out. Consider increasing MP and using the Mage free skill if you're struggling to manage your class skills.
Debuffs that don't specify a duration typically don't have one. Bosses with multiple phases can reset their stats and conditions when changing phases, though.
The success of applying Status Conditions is related to the target's level, as well as their Status Resistance. Failing to apply a Status Condition will make it easier to apply the same one next time.
After recovering from a Status Condition, it becomes harder to apply the same Status Condition again.
If a Status Condition is applied to an enemy already inflicted with it, it will be Amplified. The effect of this depends on the condition.
Inflicting POISON will cause ATK-based damage over time, while inflicting BURN will cause MAG-based damage over time. Amplifying either will increase the DoT.
Amplifying TARGET, STUN, RESTRICT, or FEAR has a chance to extend the status condition's duration by 1 turn.
Inflicting TARGET guarantees that attacks will hit the target. This is helpful when the user has much higher ACC than their allies.
Inflicting BLIND lowers ACC and effective distance for calculating hit chance. Amplifying it increases the ACC penalty.
Inflicting STUN skips the target's turns. Since it's based on their turns, it can be less effective against fast enemies.
Inflicting MISFORTUNE lowers the target's luck. Amplifying it makes their luck worse.
Inflicting RESTRICT prevents the target from repositioning. This may make enemies extremely confused (whoops).
Inflicting PERPLEXITY increases the target's MP costs. Amplifying increases them further.
Inflicting FEAR causes the user's attacks to lower a random stat on the target. This is especially effective when the user outspeeds the target.
The Options menu (/options or ch.options) allows you to show or hide certain combat log messages, including chances to hit and amounts of MP gained.
If you ever happen to meet a friendly reptile, you can use /name_summon or ch.name_summon to give it a name.
Attacks can generally only hit if the user's range is greater than or equal to the distance to the target. Some skills can hit at any range, though.
If you're stuck on a dungeon even with a party, try leveling classes for Free Skills or upgrading your equipment with WUP and SWUP.
Warriors have access to the largest variety of weapons, but none of them have a range greater than 1.
Rangers have access to many long-range weapons, but they're more limited in their available damage attributes.
Rogues have access to at least one weapon for every range, but the ones best complementing their abilities tend to have lower ATK.
Mages can choose between high MAG weapons that are nearly useless when out of MP, or lower MAG weapons that enable MAG-based basic attacks.
Certain types of equipment have lower base stats, but provide an extra trait in return.
Aggro determines the target that enemies will choose for their attacks. It's largely based on who they took the most damage from and how recently.